Define THREAT_MODEL for etcd to decentivize agents reporting CVEs outside it (#21762)
etcd-io/etcd: THREAT_MODEL.md

# etcd Threat Model

This document defines the security assumptions and trust boundaries of the etcd project.

Automated vulnerability scanners and security researchers MUST evaluate any security concern against these baseline boundaries.

---

## Security Boundaries & Assumptions

etcd is a consistent, distributed key-value storage engine designed to operate as a secure backend. The baseline security boundaries are structured as follows:

### The Network Boundary

> etcd assumes it is deployed within a strictly isolated, private network segment. It **must not** be exposed to untrusted networks or the public internet. Both the **etcd Client** and the **etcd Server** reside inside this protected perimeter.

Reviewer: nit: "should reside"?

### The Client-to-Server Boundary

etcd clients communicate with etcd Servers over Port 2379. This boundary requires **mTLS encryption**. Any client request must prove its identity at the transport layer using client certificates.

### The Peer-to-Peer Boundary

etcd Server members communicate with other cluster members over Port 2380 to run Raft consensus. This boundary must be strictly limited to authorized cluster members using dedicated, private peer certificates (mTLS).

### The Host Execution Boundary

The etcd Server engine is compiled as a pure, statically linked Go binary (`CGO_ENABLED=0`). It does not dynamically load or link to dynamic system libraries (such as host C libraries or host transport encryption libraries) at runtime.

### The Data Storage Boundary

> etcd is a transparent consensus engine. It writes data to the local storage subsystem exactly as received from the client. Data protection at rest is a client-side responsibility (e.g., client envelope encryption) or must be managed via disk filesystem encryption.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
etcd is a transparent key-value store. It writes data to the local storage subsystem exactly as received from the client. Data protection at rest is a client-side responsibility (e.g., client envelope encryption) or must be managed via disk filesystem encryption.
```

Author: Thanks!
